41  

and thus justify the mob in its deed of murder. Miller
remained firm; but as the hour drew near, and the crowd 
became more impatient, he asked for a priest. As none
could be procured, he then asked for a Methodist minister,
who came, prayed with the doomed man, baptized him and
exhorted Miller to confess. To keep up the ﬂagging spirits 
of the dense crowd around the jail, the rumor went out more
than once, that Miller had confessed. But the solemn assurance of the minister, chief—of-police, and leading editor--who were with Miller all along--is that this rumor is absolutely false.

At three o’clock the mob rushed to the jail to secure the 
prisoner. Mr. Ray had changed his mind about the promised burning; he was still in doubt as to the prisoner’s guilt. 
He again addressed the crowd to that effect, urging them not
to burn Miller, and the mob heeded him so far, that they
compromised on hanging instead of burning, which was 
agreed to by Mr. Ray. There was a loud yell, and a rush
was made for the prisoner. He was stripped naked, his
clothing literally torn from his body, and his shirt was tied 
around his loins. Some one declared the rope was a "white
man’s death," and a log-chain, nearly a hundred feet in
length, weighing over one hundred pounds, was placed
round Miller's neck and body, and he was led and dragged
through the streets of the village in that condition followed 
by thousands of people. He fainted from exhaustion sev
eral times, but was supported to the platform where they
first intended burning him.   

The chain was hooked around his neck, a man climbed 
the telegraph pole and the other end of the chain was passed 
up to him and made fast to the cross—arm. Others brought
a long forked stick which Miller was made to straddle. By
this means he was raised several feet from the ground and 
then let fall. The ﬁrst fall broke his neck, but he was 
raised in this way and let fall a second time. Numberless
hots were ﬁred into the dangling body, for most of that
 crowd were heavily armed, and had been drinking all day.

 Miller’s body hung thus exposed from three to five
 o'clock, during which time, several photographs of him as
 he hung dangling at the end of the chain were taken, and
 his toes and ﬁngers were cut off. His body was taken down,
 placed on the platform, the torch applied, and in a few 
moments there was nothing left of C. J. Miller save a few